.TH tdk_setwgt 3 ${VERSION}

.SH NAME

.PP
tdk_setwgt - sets the terminal foreground weight

.SH LIBRARY

.PP
tdk (\fIlibtdk\fR, \fI-tdk\fR)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
\fB#include <tdk.h>

void tdk_setwgt(int \fIwgt\fB);\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
It sets the weight \fIwgt\fR of the terminal foreground.

.SH WEIGHTS

.PP
These are weight values defined by the library that may be used as the \fIwgt\fR parameter:

.TP
.B TDK_WGTDFT
The default weight. Used for resets.

.TP
.B TDK_WGTBLD
The bold weight: usually rendered with bold weight and/or with light colors. It may require the use of a font with bold weight.

.TP
.B TDK_WGTDIM
The dim weight: usually rendered with a faint color.

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
#include <stdio.h>

#include <tdk.h>

int
main(void)
{
    char *msg = "Here Be Dragons!";
    tdk_setwgt(TDK_WGTBLD);
    puts(msg);
    tdk_setwgt(TDK_WGTDIM);
    puts(msg);
    tdk_setwgt(TDK_WGTDFT);
    puts(msg);
    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH NOTES

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
A custom weight must be reset before the end of your program to avoid conflicts with the current shell session.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
Terminals may implement weights differently or not at all.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
This function caches ANSI escape sequences in the standard output buffer if the standard output stream is a TTY.

Before writting to the standard error stream, ensure to flush the standard output buffer by using \fBfflush\fR(3) for them to be used.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
No weight is set if the standard output and error streams are being redirected/piped or are wide character oriented.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR fflush (3),
.BR puts (3),
.BR tdk (3)
