.TH tdk_getcurshp 3 ${VERSION}

.SH NAME

.PP
tdk_setcurshp - sets the terminal cursor shape

.SH LIBRARY

.PP
tdk (\fIlibtdk\fR, \fI-tdk\fR)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
\fB#include <tdk.h>

void tdk_setcurshp(int \fIshp\fB);\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
It sets the terminal cursor shape \fIshp\fR.

.SH SHAPES

.PP
These are shape values defined by the library that may be used as the \fIshp\fR parameter:

.TP
.B TDK_SHPDFT
The default shape. Used for resets.

.TP
.B TDK_SHPBLK, TDK_SHPBBLK
The regular and blinking variants of the block shape.

.TP
.B TDK_SHPUND, TDK_SHPBUND
The regular and blinking variants of the underline shape.

.TP
.B TDK_SHPBAR, TDK_SHPBBAR
The regular and blinking variants of the bar shape.

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
#include <tdk.h>

int
main(void)
{
    tdk_setcurshp(TDK_SHPUND);
    tdk_readkey(NULL, NULL);
    tdk_setcurshp(TDK_SHPBLK);
    tdk_readkey(NULL, NULL);
    tdk_setcurshp(TDK_SHPDFT);
    tdk_readkey(NULL, NULL);
    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH NOTES

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
A custom shape must be reset before the end of your program to avoid conflicts with the current shell session.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
This function caches ANSI escape sequences in the standard output buffer if the standard output stream is a TTY.

Before writting to the standard error stream, ensure to flush the standard output buffer by using \fBfflush\fR(3) for them to be used.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
No shape is set if the standard output and error streams are being redirected/piped or are wide character oriented.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR fflush (3),
.BR tdk (3),
.BR tdk_readkey (3)
