.TH tdk_setEffect 3 ${VERSION}

.SH NAME

.PP
tdk_setEffect - sets the state of terminal effects

.SH LIBRARY

.PP
tdk (\fIlibtdk\fR, \fI-tdk\fR)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
\fB#include <tdk.h>

void tdk_setEffect(int \fIeffect\fB, int \fIisToEnable\fB);\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
Sets the state of the terminal effects flagged in the bitmask \fIeffect\fR based on the boolean \fIisToEnable\fR: a non-zero value enables them, while zero disables them.

.SH EFFECTS

.PP
These are custom effect values defined by the library that may be used to compose the bitmask used as the \fIeffect\fR parameter:

.TP
.B tdk_Effect_Italic
The italic effect: it makes the text curly. It may require the use of a font with italic style.

.TP
.B tdk_Effect_Underline
The underline effect: it draws a horizontal line below the text.

.TP
.B tdk_Effect_Blinking
The blinking effect: it makes the text blink indefinitely.

.TP
.B tdk_Effect_ReverseVideo
The reverse-video effect: it swaps the background and foreground colors.

.TP
.B tdk_Effect_Conceal
The conceal effect: it makes the text invisible or hard to see.

.TP
.B tdk_Effect_Strikethrough
The strike-through effect: it draws a horizontal line in the middle of the text.

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
#include <stdio.h>

#include <tdk.h>

int main(void) {
  const char *message = "Here Be Dragons!";
  tdk_setEffect(tdk_Effect_Underline | tdk_Effect_ReverseVideo, 1);
  puts(message);
  tdk_setEffect(tdk_Effect_ReverseVideo, 0);
  puts(message);
  tdk_setEffect(tdk_Effect_Underline, 0);
  puts(message);
  return 0;
}
.fi

.SH NOTES

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
Any custom effect must be reset before the end of your program to avoid conflicts with the current shell session.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
Terminals may implement effects differently or not at all.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
This function caches ANSI escape sequences in the standard output buffer if the standard output stream is a TTY.

Before writting to the standard error stream, ensure to flush the standard output buffer by using \fBfflush\fR(3) for them to be used.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
No effect is set if the standard output and error streams are being redirected/piped or are wide character oriented.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR fflush (3),
.BR puts (3),
.BR tdk (3)
