.TH tdk_setTextEffect 3 "${LIBRARY_VERSION}" "${LIBRARY_PACKAGE}"

.SH NAME

.PP
tdk_setTextEffect - it enables/disables terminal effects.

.SH LIBRARY

.PP
tdk (\fIlibtdk\fR, \fI-ltdk\fR)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.PP
\fBvoid\fR tdk_setTextEffect(\fBint\fR \fIeffect\fR, \fBint\fR \fIisToEnable\fR);

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
It enables/disables the effects present in the bit-mask \fIeffect\fR based on
the boolean \fIisToEnable\fR. It will not apply any effect if the stdout and
stderr streams are being redirected or are not oriented to single-byte
characters.

.SH EFFECTS
The \fIeffect\fR bit-mask may be composed by these flags:

.TP
.B
tdk_Effect_Italic
The italic effect: it makes the text curly. It may require the use of a font
with italic style.

.TP
.B
tdk_Effect_Underline
The underline effect: it draws a horizontal line under the text.

.TP
.B
tdk_Effect_Blinking
The blinking effect: it makes the text blink indefinetely.

.TP
.B
tdk_Effect_ReverseVideo
The reverse-video effect: it swaps the foreground and background colors.

.TP
.B
tdk_Effect_Conceal
The conceal effect: it makes the text hard to read or invisible.

.TP
.B
tdk_Effect_Strikethrough
The strike-through effect: it draws a horizontal line across the middle of the
text.

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
\fB#include\fR <tdk.h>

\fBint\fR main(\fBvoid\fR) {
  /* It allocates a cool message. */
  char message[] = "Here Are Dragons!";
  /* It enables italic and underline effects and prints the message. */
  tdk_setTextEffect(tdk_Effect_Italic | tdk_Effect_Underline, 1);
  printf("%s\\n", message);
  /* It disables the italic effect and prints the message. */
  tdk_setTextEffect(tdk_Effect_Italic, 0);
  printf("%s\\n", message);
  /* It disables the underline effect and prints the message. */
  tdk_setTextEffect(tdk_Effect_Underline, 0);
  printf("%s\\n", message);
  return 0;
}
.fi

.SH NOTES
The behavior of each effect is inconsistent among terminals: they may implement
them differently or not at all.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR tdk (3)
