.TH tdk_getcurpos 3 ${VERSION}

.SH NAME

.PP
tdk_getcurpos, tdk_setcurpos - gets/sets the terminal cursor position

.SH LIBRARY

.PP
tdk (\fIlibtdk\fR, \fI-tdk\fR)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
\fB#include <tdk.h>

int tdk_getcurpos(unsigned short *\fIcol\fB, unsigned short *\fIrow\fB);
void tdk_setcurpos(unsigned short \fIcol\fB, unsigned short \fIrow\fB);\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
The function \fBtdk_getcurpos\fR gets the column and row positions of the terminal cursor and puts them inside of the addresses pointed by the \fIcol\fR and \fIrow\fR parameters, respectively, if successful.

Both parameters of this function are optional: if one is not required, use NULL.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
The function \fBtdk_setcurpos\fR sets the column and row positions of the terminal cursor specified by the \fIcol\fR and \fIrow\fR parameters, respectively.

The positions given will always be fit within the terminal window boundaries. If you need, use \fBtdk_getwindim\fR(3) to retrieve the terminal window dimensions and use that information to handle possible exceptions and make precise/relative positioning.

.PP
Both functions use a reference point at the top left corner of the screen, where both column and row positions are zero. From there, the column and row positions will increase going right and down, respectively.

.SH RETURN VALUES

.PP
The function \fBtdk_getcurpos\fR returns 0 on success, and -1 on failure. It fails if:

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
The standard input stream or the standard output and error streams are being redirected/piped or are wide character oriented.

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
#include <stdio.h>

#include <tdk.h>

int
main(void)
{
    unsigned short currow;
    tdk_getcurpos(NULL, &currow);
    tdk_setcurpos(5, currow);
    puts("Here Be Dragons!");
    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH NOTES

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
As the function \fBtdk_getcurpos\fR reads a terminal answer given through the standard input buffer, it will always clear that buffer during its call.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
The function \fBtdk_setcurpos\fR caches ANSI escape sequences in the standard output buffer if the standard output stream is a TTY.

Before writting to the standard error stream, ensure to flush the standard output buffer by using \fBfflush\fR(3) for them to be used.

.TP
.IP \\[bu]
The cursor position is not set by \fBtdk_setcurpos\fR if the standard output and error streams are being redirected/piped or are wide character oriented.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR fflush (3),
.BR puts (3),
.BR tdk (3)
